
---
layout: post
title:  "Literature Read Notes: EKG"
date:   2022-10-11
excerpt: "Read Notes of *What is Event Knowledge Graph: A Survey*"
tag:
- EKG
- notes
- blog
---

<br/>

## Introduction

* **What is EKG**: Event-centric knowledge representation from Knowledge Graph (KG) ,which is a popular knowledge representation form. 

* **The purpose of the article**: Introduce how EKG comes into being, what is called an EKG, how to construct it, and further where it can be applied.

* **How to introduce EKG**: From history, ontology, instance, and application views.

* **How to introduce EKG**: Focuse on event extraction, event modeling and mining, event and event relation extractions, and event coreference resolution

<br/>

## Historical view of EKG

1. KG: Entities
2. Event Graph: Events consisting of triggers and arguments (subject, object, time, and location)
3. Event-centric KG: Events identified by URIs and entities
4. Event evolutionary graph: Events (i.e., abstract, generalized, and semantically complete verb phrases)
5. Event-centric temporal KG: events, entities, and relations
6. Event logic graph: Abstract, generalized, and semantically complete event tuples (s, p, o)

<br/>

## Ontology view of EKG

### Event Schema Induction 

Definition :
$$
{T_0,T_1,...,T_L} (a set of texts) \\ including {tp_0,...,tp_\tau} (all event types) \\ {rl_0^i,...,rl_p^i} (all argument roles for each event type $tp_i$)
$$

Supervised methods are applied in early studies. They learn from annotated data and then induce event schema from new texts.

Semi-supervised methods start with a few annotated seeds to induce event schema. Patwardhan and Riloff(2007):domain-relevant event schema via semantic affinity.

Unsupervised methods remove the requirements of annotated data. Yuan(2018):They first detected event types by clustering news articles.

### Script Induction

The “events” in scripts, called script events, are event schema rather than instances.

Challenge:(1) The main challenge is to learn the scenario-specific argument roles automatically. (2)It is still a problem to learn high-quality scenario-specific argument roles effectively and efficiently

### EKG Schema Induction

The Definition of EKG:
$$
G={(s,p,o)|{s,p} \in N,p \in E, N=N_evt \bigcup N_ent, E=E_{evt-evt} \bigcup E_{evt-ent}} \bigcup E_{ent-ent}
$$








